README-continuous-integration-deployment.md, before:

# 🚀 CI/CD - Continuous Integration / Deployment

This project uses GitHub Actions for CI and Netlify for CD.

**Table of Contents:**

- [🚀 CI/CD - Continuous Integration / Deployment](#-cicd---continuous-integration--deployment)
  - [ℹ️ CI/CD Process](#ℹ️-cicd-process)
  - [🛠️ CI - Continuous Integration](#️-ci---continuous-integration)
    - [Status of CI](#status-of-ci)
    - [GitHub Actions](#github-actions)
      - [Workflow for Jest 🃏](#workflow-for-jest-)
      - [Workflow for Playwright 🎭](#workflow-for-playwright-)
  - [✅ CD - Continuous Deployment](#-cd---continuous-deployment)
    - [Status of CD](#status-of-cd)
    - [Netlify](#netlify)
      - [Branches and deploy contexts](#branches-and-deploy-contexts)
      - [Build plugins](#build-plugins)
      - [Deploys](#deploys)

---

## ℹ️ CI/CD Process

The entire process and information is visible on GitHub when pull request is made.

1. The process starts on **pull request** made from `master` branch.
2. **CI** - GitHub Actions run **Unit** tests and **E2E** tests.
3. **Test artifacts** are created:
   1. After the workflow completes, go to the Actions tab in GitHub repository.
   2. Find the last workflow run that was triggered.
   3. In the “Artifacts” section, you’ll see your uploaded artifact.
   4. You can download it directly from there in ZIP.
4. **CD** - Netlify creates a **Deploy Preview** of the website.
5. CI and CD should pass with no errors ✅
   1. If there are any issues, fix must be made.
   2. Process starts again.
6. **Review and test the changes** on the **Deploy Preview** link ✅
   1. If there are any issues, fix must be made.
   2. Process starts again.
7. All should be reviewed and approved ✅
8. Use **Squash and merge** to keep the history clean.
9. Merge **pull request** to `master` branch.
10. Branch is automatically deleted.
11. The **Production Build** starts on **merge** to `master` branch.
12. Once finished the **website automatically deploys** to production.

## 🛠️ CI - Continuous Integration

This app uses GitHub Actions for CI.

### Status of CI

The badges show the status of the workflows.

[![Jest Tests](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml) [![Playwright Tests](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml)

### GitHub Actions

Workflows are defined in `.github/workflows` directory.

#### Workflow for Jest 🃏

- Workflow file: [jest.yml](.github/workflows/jest.yml)
- View the results on GitHub: [actions/workflows/jest.yml](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml)

<details>
<summary>Click to read workflow description 👀</summary>

---

This workflow is triggered:

- When a pull request is opened against the `master` branch.
- The workflow consists of a single job named `run-tests-jest`.
- The job is executed on the latest version of Ubuntu.

The `run-tests-jest` job follows these steps:

1. Checkout the repository using the `actions/checkout@v3` action.
2. Setup Node.js environment using the `actions/setup-node@v3` action with Node.js version 18.
3. It installs the dependencies of your project using `pnpm ci`. This command is similar to `pnpm install`, but it's designed to be used in automated environments such as this one.
4. Run JEST tests using `pnpm test`.
5. Upload the test report as an artifact:
   - Using the `actions/upload-artifact@v3` action.
   - This step is always executed regardless of the success or failure of previous steps.
   - The artifact is named `jest-report`
   - It is located at path `jest-report/`
   - It is retained for 7 days.

</details>

#### Workflow for Playwright 🎭

- Workflow file: [playwright.yml](.github/workflows/playwright.yml)
- View the results on GitHub: [actions/workflows/playwright.yml](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml)

<details>
<summary>Click to read workflow description 👀</summary>

---

This workflow is triggered:

- When a pull request is opened against the `master` branch.
- The workflow consists of a single job named `run-tests-playwright`.
- The job is executed on the latest version of Ubuntu.

The `run-tests-playwright` job follows these steps:

1. Checkout the repository using the `actions/checkout@v3` action.
2. Setup Node.js environment using the `actions/setup-node@v3` action with Node.js version 18.
3. It installs the dependencies of your project using `pnpm ci`. This command is similar to `pnpm install`, but it's designed to be used in automated environments such as this one.
4. Install Playwright browsers using `npx playwright install --with-deps`.
5. Run Playwright tests using `npx playwright test`.
6. Upload the test report as an artifact:
   - Using the `actions/upload-artifact@v3` action.
   - This step is always executed regardless of the success or failure of previous steps.
   - The artifact is named `playwright-report`
   - It is located at path `playwright-report/`
   - It is retained for 7 days.

</details>

## ✅ CD - Continuous Deployment

The website is deployed on Netlify.

### Status of CD

The badge shows the status of the last deploy.

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/eb322254-0169-4941-9416-3806b0bd5be6/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys)

### Netlify

The website is build and deployed on Netlify.

#### Branches and deploy contexts

Deploy contexts are branch-based environments that enable you to configure builds depending on the context. This includes production and preview environments.

- Production branch: **master**
- Branch deploys: **Deploy only the production branch**
- Deploy Previews: **Any pull request against your production branch / branch deploy branches**

#### Build plugins

The website can uses different build plugins.

- [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview) - automatically runs audit on website after every build.

#### Deploys

You can click on the last 2 deploys to see the details.

- [netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys](https://app.netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys)

Commit message:

fix: revert pnpm to npm for CI

README-continuous-integration-deployment.md, after:

# 🚀 CI/CD - Continuous Integration / Deployment

This project uses GitHub Actions for CI and Netlify for CD.

**Table of Contents:**

- [🚀 CI/CD - Continuous Integration / Deployment](#-cicd---continuous-integration--deployment)
  - [ℹ️ CI/CD Process](#ℹ️-cicd-process)
  - [🛠️ CI - Continuous Integration](#️-ci---continuous-integration)
    - [Status of CI](#status-of-ci)
    - [GitHub Actions](#github-actions)
      - [Workflow for Jest 🃏](#workflow-for-jest-)
      - [Workflow for Playwright 🎭](#workflow-for-playwright-)
  - [✅ CD - Continuous Deployment](#-cd---continuous-deployment)
    - [Status of CD](#status-of-cd)
    - [Netlify](#netlify)
      - [Branches and deploy contexts](#branches-and-deploy-contexts)
      - [Build plugins](#build-plugins)
      - [Deploys](#deploys)

---

## ℹ️ CI/CD Process

The entire process and information is visible on GitHub when pull request is made.

1. The process starts on **pull request** made from `master` branch.
2. **CI** - GitHub Actions run **Unit** tests and **E2E** tests.
3. **Test artifacts** are created:
   1. After the workflow completes, go to the Actions tab in GitHub repository.
   2. Find the last workflow run that was triggered.
   3. In the “Artifacts” section, you’ll see your uploaded artifact.
   4. You can download it directly from there in ZIP.
4. **CD** - Netlify creates a **Deploy Preview** of the website.
5. CI and CD should pass with no errors ✅
   1. If there are any issues, fix must be made.
   2. Process starts again.
6. **Review and test the changes** on the **Deploy Preview** link ✅
   1. If there are any issues, fix must be made.
   2. Process starts again.
7. All should be reviewed and approved ✅
8. Use **Squash and merge** to keep the history clean.
9. Merge **pull request** to `master` branch.
10. Branch is automatically deleted.
11. The **Production Build** starts on **merge** to `master` branch.
12. Once finished the **website automatically deploys** to production.

## 🛠️ CI - Continuous Integration

This app uses GitHub Actions for CI.

### Status of CI

The badges show the status of the workflows.

[![Jest Tests](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml) [![Playwright Tests](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml)

### GitHub Actions

Workflows are defined in `.github/workflows` directory.

#### Workflow for Jest 🃏

- Workflow file: [jest.yml](.github/workflows/jest.yml)
- View the results on GitHub: [actions/workflows/jest.yml](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/jest.yml)

<details>
<summary>Click to read workflow description 👀</summary>

---

This workflow is triggered:

- When a pull request is opened against the `master` branch.
- The workflow consists of a single job named `run-tests-jest`.
- The job is executed on the latest version of Ubuntu.

The `run-tests-jest` job follows these steps:

1. Checkout the repository using the `actions/checkout@v3` action.
2. Setup Node.js environment using the `actions/setup-node@v3` action with Node.js version 18.
3. It installs the dependencies of your project using `npm ci`. This command is similar to `npm install`, but it's designed to be used in automated environments such as this one.
4. Run JEST tests using `npm test`.
5. Upload the test report as an artifact:
   - Using the `actions/upload-artifact@v3` action.
   - This step is always executed regardless of the success or failure of previous steps.
   - The artifact is named `jest-report`
   - It is located at path `jest-report/`
   - It is retained for 7 days.

</details>

#### Workflow for Playwright 🎭

- Workflow file: [playwright.yml](.github/workflows/playwright.yml)
- View the results on GitHub: [actions/workflows/playwright.yml](https://github.com/krsiakdaniel/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/actions/workflows/playwright.yml)

<details>
<summary>Click to read workflow description 👀</summary>

---

This workflow is triggered:

- When a pull request is opened against the `master` branch.
- The workflow consists of a single job named `run-tests-playwright`.
- The job is executed on the latest version of Ubuntu.

The `run-tests-playwright` job follows these steps:

1. Checkout the repository using the `actions/checkout@v3` action.
2. Setup Node.js environment using the `actions/setup-node@v3` action with Node.js version 18.
3. It installs the dependencies of your project using `npm ci`. This command is similar to `npm install`, but it's designed to be used in automated environments such as this one.
4. Install Playwright browsers using `npx playwright install --with-deps`.
5. Run Playwright tests using `npx playwright test`.
6. Upload the test report as an artifact:
   - Using the `actions/upload-artifact@v3` action.
   - This step is always executed regardless of the success or failure of previous steps.
   - The artifact is named `playwright-report`
   - It is located at path `playwright-report/`
   - It is retained for 7 days.

</details>

## ✅ CD - Continuous Deployment

The website is deployed on Netlify.

### Status of CD

The badge shows the status of the last deploy.

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/eb322254-0169-4941-9416-3806b0bd5be6/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys)

### Netlify

The website is build and deployed on Netlify.

#### Branches and deploy contexts

Deploy contexts are branch-based environments that enable you to configure builds depending on the context. This includes production and preview environments.

- Production branch: **master**
- Branch deploys: **Deploy only the production branch**
- Deploy Previews: **Any pull request against your production branch / branch deploy branches**

#### Build plugins

The website can uses different build plugins.

- [Lighthouse](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview) - automatically runs audit on website after every build.

#### Deploys

You can click on the last 2 deploys to see the details.

- [netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys](https://app.netlify.com/sites/portfolio-website-krsiak-cz/deploys)
